.TH XS "1" "March 2018"
.SH NAME
xs \- an enhanced version of the standard "cd" command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xs
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
With
.I xs
we can reach the target directory by browse file system by simple arrow keys.
.PP
While you are in 
.I xs
you can use various commands to navigate through 
the file-system. These are described below in the section
"COMMANDS". The most commonly used and most obvious commands are the
up/down keys for navigation, "ENTER" for selection of a path and "q" for
quit.
.PP
To be able to actually use this program together with the shell
built-in "cd" command you must use a little trick by defining a shell
function. It was be done in shell/xs-bash.sh.
.PP

Now you only have to put the 
.I xscore
binary somewhere into your path. Installation did it.

.SH COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
You can call 
.I xs
with a few options, but otherwise you probably won't call it directly
but via the function you defined.
.IP "\fB-h\fR or \fB--help\fR"
display usage information and exit.
.IP "\fB-v\fR or \fB\-\-version\fR"
output version information and exit.
.IP "\fB-r\fR or \fB\-\-noresolve\fR"
Don't exit with a result when the \fINeedle\fR matches a description
exactly (which is some every-day-magic) but show a list (even if it 
contains just one entry).
.IP \fINeedle\fR
The Needle performs some magic which I hope improves the usage of
xs. 

The Needle is examined in the following order and the first
thing that fits is taken.

If \fINeedle\fR is a one-digit integer the appropriate entry is
preselected.

Otherwise if \fINeedle\fR is a string each entry of the
list is checked whether it contains \fINeedle\fR. 
 
.SH "COMMANDS"
When you are in 
.I xs
you have two modes and several commands at your hands.
.PP
\fBCommon Keys\fR
.IP "\fB<UP>/<DOWN>\fR"
move selection up/down and scroll.
.IP "\fB<LEFT>, h, C-b\fR"
descent into current directory.
.IP "\fB<RIGHT>, l, C-f\fR"
up one directory from current dir.
.IP "\fB<PgUp>/<PgDown>\fR"
Scroll the list in 10-line-steps.
.IP "\fB<HOME>/<END>\fR"
goto first/last entry in list.
.IP "\fB<ENTER>\fR"
select current entry.
.IP "\fB?\fR"
show the help-screen.
.IP "\fB~, /\fR"
browse home/root directory.
.IP "\fB.\fR"
toggle display of hidden files.
.IP "\fBq\fR"
quit

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I "$HOME/.xsresult"
temporary file for passing results to shell.
.TP
.I "shell/xs-bash.sh"
example collection of bash functions.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs, open an issue or PR to official repository https://github.com/Linkerist/xs

.SH "COPYRIGHT"

Copyright (c) 2018 ZiChen Qian
.PP
.I xs
is free software under MIT License
